.\"" Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\""
.\"" IMPORTANT NOTE: This file is licensed only for use on Apple-branded
.\"" computers and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Software
.\"" License Agreement accompanying the package this file is a part of.
.\"" You may not port this file to another platform without Apple's written consent.
.\""
.\"
.Dd March 30, 2017
.Dt WIKIADMIN
.Os "macOS Server"
.Sh NAME
.Nm wikiadmin
- command-line tool for managing wiki export/import and other administrative Wiki Service functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
export [[-l| -name \fIwiki-id\fR,[,\fIwiki-id\fR...] | -all] [-format legacy|decoded|json|pages|wxr] -path \fIexport-path\fR]

.Nm
import [[-l| -name \fIwiki-id\fR,[,\fIwiki-id\fR...] | -all] -path \fIexport-path\fR
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command line tool provides a way for administrators to export wikis into an archive or other formats, import wikis from an archive, and perform a few other administrative tasks for Wiki Service that are not available in macOS Server.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
The following subcommands are available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ar export
The
.Ar export
subcommand allows one or more wikis to be exported from the active Wiki Service into an archive bundle or to a folder containing browsable content. The command must be run with privileges (such as root) that allow setuid to _teamsserver. Export of content not associated with a wiki, such as user pages or documents, is not supported for all formats.
.Pp
The optional -l argument causes the export subcommand to just list the names of the wikis in Wiki Service available for export, without exporting any.
.Pp
The -name argument is a comma-separated list of wiki identifiers, each of which can be a short name, long name, tiny ID, or guid.
.Pp
The -all argument is an alternative to the -name argument that means export all wikis.
.Pp
The optional -format argument specifies one of four export formats:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ar legacy
A binary PostgreSQL format used specifically for later
.Nm
import of one or more of the specified wikis. This is the default format.
.It Ar decoded
An Exported.wikis bundle containing human-readable, NSDictionary representation of the database tables for the specified wikis, without the binary encoding of the legacy format. For reference; not currently importable.
.It Ar json
An Exported.wikis bundle containing a human-readable, JSON representation of the specified wikis, including the content and format of wiki pages, wiki blog posts, attached and embedded files, ACLs, themes, comments, and tags. It includes the revision history for each page. For each exported wiki, this format creates a wiki.json file and, for each page, it creates a <tinyid>-wikiPage.html file. For reference; not currently importable.
.It Ar pages
A folder containing browsable static HTML pages of the wiki content. In addition to an HTML file for each wiki page, wiki blog post, and user document, the folder contains a generated index.html file which contains a name and link for each exported item. (This folder can be placed under Apache's document root, but administrators are responsible for configuring Apache with authentication realms to restrict access to authorized users.) Although the exported content is formatted and browsable, certain semantics and behaviors are not available in the exported folder. Specifically: comments, and tags are shown, but accessing by tag is not. Only the latest revision of each page is exported, and the history is not available. Uploaded files are present; embedded files are present but only images are embedded in the page. Access control is not represented; all exported pages are only readable by user _teamsserver (and a recursive "chown" step is needed for the pages to be browsable).
.It Ar wxr
A folder containing an WordPress Extended RSS (WXR) representation of the pages of each wiki. This approximates an RSS feed, with extensions intended for import to a WordPress site.
.El
The -path argument specifies a file system path to a folder where the Exported.wikis archive bundle, the pages folder, or the WXR files will be created. It needs to be readable and writeable by user _teamsserver. Intermediate folders will be created if necessary. If an Exported.wikis bundle or folder already exists at the specified path, it will be overwritten, not replaced.
.El
.Pp
.It Ar import
The
.Ar import
subcommand allows one or more wikis to be imported from an archive bundle into the active Wiki Service. The command must be run with privileges that allow setuid to _teamsserver. Existing wikis are not overwritten in the import process, so it might result in mutiple wikis with the same short name or long name. Import of users and non-wiki content is not supported.
.Pp
The optional -l argument causes the import subcommand to just list the names of the wikis available for import from the specified Exported.wikis archive bundle, without importing any. It also lists the creation date and version of the archive.
.Pp
The -name argument is a comma-separated list of wiki identifiers, each of which can be a short name, long name, tiny ID, or guid. (These alternate means of identifying a wiki are supported because a wiki might not have a short name, or multiple wikis might have the same short name.)
.Pp
The -all argument is an alternative to the -name argument that means import all wikis.
.Pp
The -path argument specifies a file system path to the export archive. If this does not specify a path to an Exported.wikis bundle, it can specify a path to a folder containing an Exported.wikis bundle. It can also specify a path to an older macOS Server 3.2 format export folder. It needs to be readable and writeable by user _teamsserver.
.It Ar migrate
The
.Ar migrate
subcommand allows one or more wikis to be migrated from a Snow Leopard Server wiki repository to the current active Wiki Service. The command must be run with privileges that allow setuid to _teamsserver. Existing wikis are not overwritten in the migrate process, so it might result in mutiple wikis with the same short name or long name.
.Pp
The -r argument specifies a file system path to the Snow Leopard Server wiki repository (typically the Collaboration folder).
.Pp
The optional -g argument specifies the name of a single wiki (group) to be migrated from the repository. If omitted, all wikis are migrated.
.It Ar resetQuicklooks
The
.Ar resetQuicklooks
subcommand can be used if the wiki contains documents that were uploaded with an older version of macOS Server where Quicklooks might not have been created. It will cause new Quicklooks to be created for all documents.

.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLE USAGE
.Bd -literal
wikiadmin export -l
wikiadmin export -all -path /Library/Server/Wiki/Save
wikiadmin import -l -path /Library/Server/Wiki/Save
wikiadmin import -name somewiki,anotherwiki -path /Library/Server/Wiki/Save

wikiadmin export -name somewiki,anotherwiki -path /var/tmp/two-exported-wikis
wikiadmin import -all -path /var/tmp/two-exported-wikis
wikiadmin import -all -path /var/tmp/two-exported-wikis/Exported.wikis

wikiadmin export -all -format json -path /var/tmp/readable-wikis

wikiadmin export -all -format pages -path /var/tmp/browsable-wikis

wikiadmin export -all -format wxr -path /var/tmp/wxr-wiki-files

wikiadmin migrate -r /Volumes/SnowLeopard/Library/Collaboration

.Ed
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns a status code of 0 for success. In the event of failure it returns a non-zero status,
and writes error messages to stderr.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Pa /Library/Server/Wiki/Logs/wikiadmin.log
Log file for
.Nm
activity
.It Pa /Library/Server/Wiki/Logs/collabd.log
Log file for Wiki http server activity
.It Pa /Library/Server/Wiki/, /tmp/, /var/tmp, /Users/Shared
Folders readable and writable by user _teamsserver where exports can typically be placed
.It Pa <export-path>/Exported.wikis
The name of the bundle created when exporting wikis for formats other than
.Ar pages .
.It Pa <export-path>/FileData/*/*/*
For
.Ar -format pages
- exported files that were uploaded to the wiki as files or embedded in pages
.It Pa <export-path>/wiki/projects/*/*.html
For
.Ar -format pages
- exported wiki main pages and user profile pages
.It Pa <export-path>/wiki/pages/*/*.html
For
.Ar -format pages
- exported wiki pages
.It Pa <export-path>/css/*.css
For
.Ar -format pages
- style sheets for use in browsing the exported content
.It Pa <export-path>/index.html
For
.Ar -format pages
- a generated landing page with links to all exported wikis and pages
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first allowed export in macOS Server 3.2. The packaging format for exported wikis was revised with macOS Server 4.1, but the new
.Nm
still supports importing from the older export formats.
