{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf750
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21960\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7319\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs82 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u63743 \
\pard\tx7319\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Read Before You Install Apple Remote Desktop 3.9\
\pard\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf0 Apple Remote Desktop is a powerful desktop management solution for all your networked OS X computers. You can automatically distribute software, remotely configure and control systems, offer real-time online help to end users, create detailed software and hardware reports, and automate your IT workflows. All without leaving your desk.\
\
\pard\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Read the following before you install. It includes details on Apple Remote Desktop, system requirements, and known issues.\
\
Apple Remote Desktop also provides onscreen instructions. To access onscreen instructions, choose Help > Remote Desktop Help. Click Contents to browse a list of topics or type your question in the Search field and press Return.\
\
For information about support, training and certification programs visit the Apple Web site at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/support/remotedesktop"}}{\fldrslt http://www.apple.com/support/remotedesktop}}.\
\
Visit the Apple Web site at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/remotedesktop"}}{\fldrslt http://www.apple.com/remotedesktop}} for more information about Apple Remote Desktop.\
\
For detailed information on this update, please refer to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://support.apple.com/kb/HT201068"}}{\fldrslt http://support.apple.com/kb/HT201068}}.\
\
For information on the security content of this update, please visit: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1222"}}{\fldrslt http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1222}}.\
\
\pard\tx340\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 System requirements
\b0\fs22 \
\pard\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This version of Apple Remote Desktop can be installed on computers with:\
\
\'95 OS X v10.10.5 or later\
\'95\'a0Ethernet (recommended), Wi-Fi, or IP over FireWire or Thunderbolt network connection\
\
\pard\tx340\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 Additional Information
\b0\fs22 \
\pard\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Compatibility with previous versions of Apple Remote Desktop\
\pard\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Apple Remote Desktop 3.9 will continue to support computers running version 3.4 and later of the client software. However, you must opt-in by choosing, \'93Allow communication with older clients (less secure)\'94 in the Security tab of the Preferences if you choose not to upgrade your clients to 3.9.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Enabling Apple Remote Desktop\
\pard\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
In the Sharing section of System Preferences, select the \'93Remote Management\'94 service.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a9 2012-2017 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Apple Remote Desktop, and FireWire are trademarks or registered trademarks of Apple Inc.\'a0in the United States and other countries. Other names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of Apple in the U.S. and elsewhere. See www.apple.com/legal/trademark/appletmlist.html for more information.\
}