{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1121\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\info
{\author Elizabeth  Plageman}
{\*\company Apple}}\vieww21120\viewh15500\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 ENGLISH\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 APPLE INC. \
SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR MAC OS X LION SERVER \
For use on Apple-branded Systems\
 \
PLEASE READ THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT ("LICENSE") CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE APPLE SOFTWARE.  BY USING THE APPLE SOFTWARE, YOU ARE AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, DO NOT INSTALL AND/OR USE THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND, IF PRESENTED WITH THE OPTION TO \'93AGREE\'94 OR \'93DISAGREE\'94 TO THE TERMS, CLICK \'93DISAGREE\'94. IF YOU ACQUIRED THE APPLE SOFTWARE AS PART OF AN APPLE HARDWARE PURCHASE AND IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, YOU MAY RETURN THE ENTIRE APPLE HARDWARE/SOFTWARE PACKAGE WITHIN THE RETURN PERIOD TO THE APPLE STORE OR AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR WHERE YOU OBTAINED IT FOR A REFUND, SUBJECT TO APPLE\'92S RETURN POLICY FOUND AT http://www.apple.com/legal/sales_policies/. YOU MUST RETURN THE ENTIRE HARDWARE/SOFTWARE PACKAGE IN ORDER TO OBTAIN A REFUND. \
\
IMPORTANT NOTE: To the extent that this software may be used to reproduce, modify, publish or distribute materials, such use is licensed to you only for materials you are authorized or legally permitted to reproduce, modify, publish or distribute. If you are uncertain about your right to copy, modify, publish or distribute any material, you should contact your legal advisor.\
\
1. General. 
\b0 \
A. The Apple software, any third party software, documentation, interfaces, content, fonts and any data accompanying this License whether preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware, on disk, in read only memory, on any other media or in any other form (collectively the \'93Apple Software\'94) are licensed, not sold, to you by Apple Inc. (\'93Apple\'94) for use only under the terms of this License. Apple and/or Apple\'92s licensors retain ownership of the Apple Software itself and reserve all rights not expressly granted to you.\
\
B. Apple, at its discretion, may make available future upgrades or updates to the Apple Software for your Apple-branded computer. Apple may provide you any such upgrades and updates that it may release up to, but not including, the next major release of the Apple Software, for free. For example, if you originally purchased a license for version 10.7 of the Apple Software, Apple may provide you for free any software upgrades or updates it might release (e.g. version 10.7.1 or 10.7.2) up to, but not including, version 10.8 of the Apple Software. After the next major release of the Apple Software, Apple may also at its discretion continue to provide minor updates and enhancements to the Apple Software. Upgrades and updates, if any, may not necessarily include all existing software features or new features that Apple releases for newer models of Apple-branded computers and may, at Apple\'92s discretion, be provided with or without charge. The terms of this License will govern any software upgrades or updates provided by Apple that replace and/or supplement the original Apple Software product, unless such upgrade or update is accompanied by a separate license in which case the terms of that license will govern.\
\
C. Title and intellectual property rights in and to any content displayed by or accessed through the Apple Software belongs to the respective content owner. Such content may be protected by copyright or other intellectual property laws and treaties, and may be subject to terms of use of the third party providing such content. This License does not grant you any rights to use such content nor does it guarantee that such content will continue to be available to you. \
\

\b 2. Permitted License Uses and Restrictions.  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 A. \ul Standard and Preinstalled Apple Software License\ulnone . Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, unless you obtained the Apple Software from the Mac App Store or under a volume license, maintenance or other written agreement from Apple, you are granted a limited, non-exclusive license to install, use and run one (1) copy of the Apple Software on a single Apple-branded computer at any one time.  For example, these standard, single-copy license terms apply to you if you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware.\
\
B. \ul License from Mac App Store\ulnone . If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store, then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Mac App Store Usage Rules set forth in the App Store Terms and Conditions ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/legal/itunes/ww/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.apple.com/legal/itunes/ww/}}) (\'93Usage Rules\'94), you are granted a limited, non-transferable, non-exclusive license:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720
\cf0 (i) to download, install, use and run for personal, non-commercial use, one (1) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running Mac OS X Snow Leopard Server or Mac OS X Lion (\'93Mac Computer\'94) that you own or control; and\
\
(ii) \cf2 If you are a commercial enterprise or educational institution, \cf0 to download, install, use and run one (1) copy of the Apple Software \cf2 for use either: (a) by a single individual on each of the Mac Computer(s)\cf0  \cf2 that you own or control, or (b) by multiple individuals on a single shared Mac Computer that you own or control. For example, a single employee may use the Apple Software on both the employee\'92s desktop Mac Computer and laptop Mac Computer, or multiple students may serially use the Apple Software on a single Mac Computer located at a resource center or library.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
C. \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Volume or Maintenance License\ulnone . If you obtained the Apple Software under a volume or maintenance license program with Apple, the terms of your volume or maintenance license will determine the number of copies of the Apple Software you are permitted to download, install, use and run on Apple-branded computers you own or control.  Except as agreed to in writing by Apple, all other terms and conditions of this License shall apply to your use of the Apple Software obtained under a volume or maintenance license. \cf0 \
\
D. \ul Academic User\ulnone . If you acquired the Apple Software at an academic discount, you must be an Eligible Educational End User to use the Apple Software. "Eligible Educational End Users" means students, faculty, staff and administration attending and/or working at an educational institution (i.e., college campus, public or private K-12 schools).\
\
E. \ul System Requirements; Apple ID\ulnone . Please note that the Apple Software is supported only on Apple-branded hardware and software that meets specified system requirements as indicated by Apple.  This Apple Software runs on top of the Mac OS X Lion operating system software, use of which is governed by the Mac OS X Lion Software License Agreement which accompanies such software and is also available at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/legal/sla"}}{\fldrslt http://www.apple.com/legal/sla}}.  In addition, use of and access to certain features of the Apple Software and certain Services (as defined in Section 5) may require you to apply for a unique user name and password combination, known as an Apple ID.\
\
F. \ul Other Use Restrictions\ulnone . \
The grants set forth in this License do not permit you to, and you agree not to, install, use or run the Apple Software on any non-Apple-branded computer, or to enable others to do so. Unless otherwise permitted by the terms of this License: (i) only one user may use the Apple Software at a time, and (ii) you may not make the Apple Software available over a network where it could be run or used by multiple computers at the same time. You may not rent, lease, lend, sell, redistribute or sublicense the Apple Software. \
\
G. \ul Backup Copy\ulnone . You may make one copy of the Apple Software in machine-readable form for backup purposes only; provided that the backup copy must include all copyright or other proprietary notices contained on the original. \
\
H. \ul Migration of Existing Software\ulnone . If you use the Transfer Server feature of the Apple Software to transfer software from one Apple-branded computer to another Apple-branded computer, please remember that continued use of the original copy of the software may be prohibited once a copy has been transferred to another computer, unless you already have a licensed copy of such software on both computers. You should check the relevant software license agreements for applicable terms and conditions. Third party software and services may not be compatible with this Apple Software and installation of this Apple Software may affect the availability and usability of such third party software or services, as well as Apple products and services.\
\
I. \ul Open Source\ulnone . Certain components of the Apple Software, and third party open source programs included with the Apple Software, have been or may be made available by Apple on its Open Source web site ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.opensource.apple.com/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.opensource.apple.com/}}) (collectively the "Open-Sourced Components"). You may modify or replace only these Open-Sourced Components; provided that: (i) the resultant modified Apple Software is used, in place of the unmodified Apple Software, on Apple-branded computers you own or control, as long as each such Apple computer has a properly licensed copy of the Apple Software on it; and (ii) you otherwise comply with the terms of this License and any applicable licensing terms governing use of the Open-Sourced Components. Apple is not obligated to provide any updates, maintenance, warranty, technical or other support, or services for the resultant modified Apple Software.  You expressly acknowledge that if failure or damage to Apple hardware results from modification of the Open-Sourced Components of the Apple Software, such failure or damage is excluded from the terms of the Apple hardware warranty.\
\
J. \ul No Reverse Engineering.\ulnone  You may not and you agree not to, or to enable others to, copy (except as expressly permitted by this License or by the Usage Rules if they are applicable to you), decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, decrypt, modify, or create derivative works of the Apple Software or any services provided by the Apple Software, or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law or to the extent as may be permitted by licensing terms governing use of Open-Sourced Components). \
\
K. \ul Profile Manager\ulnone . \
You may use Profile Manager to create configuration profiles (e.g., to pre-configure VPN, set network interface settings, enable remote wipe, enforce passcodes, etc.) for managing Apple-branded products that work with this feature, but solely for use within your company or organization or for your own non-commercial, personal use.  You may not use Profile Manager to manage products that are not within your company or organization or that are not managed for your own personal, non-commercial use.  You may not provide a service to third parties that integrates with or leverages services or information provided by Profile Manager or uses Profile Manager in any way. Further, you understand and agree that all information that you obtain through the use of Profile Manager may only be used for your internal purposes within your company or organization or for your own non-commercial, personal use.\
\
You are responsible for informing users of products that you are managing using the Profile Manager that configuration profiles have been installed, and if applicable, that you will be able to interact with, inspect, manage and wipe such products remotely.  As a condition to using Profile Manager, you represent and warrant to Apple that you have all the necessary rights and consents to collect and use any information that you obtain through the use of the Apple Software in this manner, and that you will only use Profile Manager in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  \
\
L. \ul System Imaging.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone 1. NetBoot Software. You may use the NetBoot software included with the Apple Software to boot Apple-branded client computers from an Apple server for purposes of enabling such clients to access separate instances of the Mac OS X desktop (and other Apple software and third party software) from such server, provided that each such Apple-branded client computer is licensed to run the version of the Mac OS X software that is accessed as well as any other software that is accessed.  \
\
2. NetInstall and NetRestore Software. You may use the NetInstall and NetRestore software included with the Apple Software to: (i) create multiple image files of the Mac OS X software, Apple software and third party software, and (ii) make such image files available on an Apple server for use on an unlimited number of Apple-branded client computers at a time, provided that each such Apple-branded client computer is licensed to run all of the software included in the image file. \
\
3. You agree to ensure that each end user of NetBoot, NetInstall or NetRestore image files is aware of and complies with the terms of the software license(s) that governs the use of the software contained within such image files. The NetBoot, NetInstall and NetRestore software may be used to install and reproduce software as permitted herein only so long as such use is licensed by the owner of the software or you are authorized or legally permitted to reproduce such software in this manner, and you warrant to Apple that the software being installed or used has been appropriately licensed by you. \
\
4. Except as expressly permitted in this Section 2L (System Imaging), or except as otherwise licensed by Apple, you agree not to use the Apple Software in connection with service bureau, time-sharing, terminal sharing or other similar types of services. You also agree not to use or offer the Apple Software, or any of its functionality, to provide service bureau, time-sharing, terminal sharing or other similar types of services to third parties.  \
\
M. \ul Xsan Administration\ulnone .  You may use the Xsan Admin feature to set up and manage a storage area network (SAN) for an unlimited number of Apple-branded client computers validly licensed to run the Xsan file system software.\
\
N. \ul Software Update Server\ulnone . You may use the Software Update Server feature of the Apple Software to host software updates to Mac OS X and other Apple and third party software on your Apple server for access by Apple-branded client computers, provided that each such Apple-branded client computer is licensed to receive such software updates and that all such use of this Software Update feature is solely for internal use within your company or organization or for your own non-commercial, personal use, and is not otherwise prohibited by the license agreements accompanying the software you would like to make available in this manner. \
\
O. \ul Push Notifications\ulnone . \
To use the Apple Push Notification functionality of the Apple Software (\'93Push Service\'94), you will need to have an Apple ID and you will need to apply for an Apple-issued certificate.  You agree that the information that you provide in connection with such ID and certificate will be true, accurate, and complete. You may only use the Push Service to send notifications from the Address Book Server, iCal Server, Mail Server, and Profile Manager, and only for use within your company or organization or for your own non-commercial, personal use.  Unless you enter into a separate agreement with Apple, you may not use the Push Service for purposes of sending notifications to any other service, application or device.  You may not provide a service to third parties that integrates with or leverages services provided by the Push Service or uses the Push Service in any way. You may only use the Push Service to send notifications to users within your company or organization or for your own non-commercial, personal use. \
\
You acknowledge and agree that notifications from the Push Service are sent by you, not Apple, and that you are solely liable and responsible for any data or content transmitted in such notifications, and for your use of the Push Service. As a condition to using the Push Service, you agree not to send unsolicited messages, or otherwise use the Push Service for improper or illegal purposes.  You also agree not to excessively use the overall network capacity or bandwidth of the Push Service, as determined in Apple\'92s sole discretion. Further, you agree not to take any actions to interfere with the normal operation of the Push Service, including with digital certificates or encryption used in the Push Service.\
\
You understand and agree that in order to provide the Push Service, Apple may transmit notifications across various public networks, in various media, and modify notifications to comply with the technical and other requirements for connecting to networks or devices.  You acknowledge and agree that the Push Service is not, and is not intended to be, a guaranteed or secure delivery service, and you shall not use or rely upon it as such.  Further, you understand and agree that Apple may revoke your Apple-issued certificate and remove your access to the Push Service at any time in its sole discretion.\
\
P. \ul Podcast Library\ulnone . Subject to the restrictions set forth in this License, you may use Podcast Publisher to reproduce, publish and distribute podcasts so long as such use is limited to reproduction, publication and distribution of non-copyrighted materials, materials in which you own the copyright, or materials you are authorized or legally permitted to reproduce, publish and distribute, and you warrant to Apple that the materials used in your podcasts are owned, or have been appropriately licensed, by you.  You may use the introduction and exit movie segments included within the Podcast Publisher in your podcasts and may reproduce and distribute them with your podcasts.  However, you may not use such movie segments (including any digital imagery contained therein) on a stand-alone basis or outside the context of their intended use in podcasts.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Q. \ul Compliance with Laws\ulnone . You agree to use the Apple Software and the Services (as defined in Section 5 below) in compliance with all applicable laws, including local laws of the country or region in which you reside or in which you download or use the Apple Software or any Services. \
\

\b 3.  Transfer.
\b0  \
A. If you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware, you may make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your license rights in the Apple Software (in its original form as provided by Apple) to another party, provided that: (i) the Apple Software is transferred together with your Apple-branded hardware; (ii) the transfer must include all of the Apple Software, including all its component parts, printed materials and this License; (iii) you do not retain any copies of the Apple Software, full or partial, including copies stored on a computer or other storage device; and (iv) the party receiving the Apple Software reads and agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this License. For purposes of this License, if Apple provides an update (e.g., version 10.7 to 10.7.1) to the Apple Software, the update is considered part of the Apple Software and may not be transferred separately from the pre-update version of the Apple Software.\
\
B. If you obtained your license to the Apple Software from the Mac App Store, it is not transferable. If you sell your Apple-branded hardware to a third party, you must remove the Apple Software from the Apple-branded hardware before doing so.\
\
C. You may not transfer any Apple Software that has been modified or replaced under Section 2I (Open Source) above. All components of the Apple Software are provided as part of a bundle and may not be separated from the bundle and distributed as standalone applications. Apple Software provided with a particular Apple-branded hardware product may not run on other models of Apple-branded hardware.\
\
D. Any copy of the Apple Software that may be provided by Apple for promotional, evaluation, diagnostic or restorative purposes may only be used for such purposes and may not be resold or transferred. \
\

\b 4. Consent to Use of Data. \

\b0 A. \ul Diagnostic and Usage Data\ulnone . You agree that Apple and its subsidiaries and agents may collect, maintain, process and use diagnostic, technical, usage and related information, including but not limited to information about your computer, system and application software, and peripherals, that is gathered periodically to facilitate the provision of software updates, product support and other services to you (if any) related to the Apple Software, and to verify compliance with the terms of this License. Apple may use this information, as long as it is in a form that does not personally identify you, to provide and improve Apple\'92s products and services. To enable Apple\'92s partners and third party developers to improve their software, hardware and services designed for use with Apple products, Apple may also provide any such partner or third party developer with a subset of diagnostic information that is relevant to that partner\'92s or developer\'92s software, hardware and/or services, as long as the diagnostic information is in a form that does not personally identify you.\
\
B. \ul Privacy Policy\ulnone . At all times your information will be treated in accordance with Apple\'92s Privacy Policy, which is incorporated by reference into this License and can be viewed at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/privacy/"}}{\fldrslt \ul www.apple.com/privacy/}}.\
\

\b 5. Services and Third Party Materials.  \

\b0 A. \ul General\ulnone .  The Apple Software may enable access to the Mac App Store and other Apple and third party services and web sites (collectively and individually, "Services"). Use of these Services requires Internet access and use of certain Services may require an Apple ID, may require you to accept additional terms and may be subject to additional fees. By using this software in connection with an Apple ID or other Apple account, you agree to the applicable terms of service for that account.\
\
B. You understand that by using any of the Services, you may encounter content that may be deemed offensive, indecent, or objectionable, and that the results of any search or entering of a particular URL may automatically and unintentionally generate links or references to objectionable material. Nevertheless, you agree to use the Services at your sole risk and that Apple shall have no liability to you for content that may be found to be offensive, indecent, or objectionable. \
\
C. Certain Services may display, include or make available content, data, information, applications or materials from third parties (\'93Third Party Materials\'94) or provide links to certain third party web sites. By using the Services, you acknowledge and agree that Apple is not responsible for examining or evaluating the content, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, validity, copyright compliance, legality, decency, quality or any other aspect of such Third Party Materials or web sites. Apple, its officers, affiliates and subsidiaries do not warrant or endorse and do not assume and will not have any liability or responsibility to you or any other person for any third-party Services, Third Party Materials or web sites, or for any other materials, products, or services of third parties. Third Party Materials and links to other web sites are provided solely as a convenience to you. \
\
D. Financial information displayed by any Services is for general informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as investment advice. Before executing any securities transaction based upon information obtained through the Services, you should consult with a financial or securities professional who is legally qualified to give financial or securities advice in your country or region. Location data provided by any Services is for basic navigational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon in situations where precise location information is needed or where erroneous, inaccurate, time-delayed or incomplete location data may lead to death, personal injury, property or environmental damage. Neither Apple nor any of its content providers guarantees the availability, accuracy, completeness, reliability, or timeliness of stock information, location data or any other data displayed by any Services. \
\
E. You agree that the Services contain proprietary content, information and material that is owned by Apple, the site owner and/or their licensors, and is protected by applicable intellectual property and other laws, including but not limited to copyright, and that you will not use such proprietary content, information or materials in any way whatsoever except for permitted use of the Services or in any manner that is inconsistent with the terms of this License or that infringes any intellectual property rights of a third party or Apple. No portion of the Services may be reproduced in any form or by any means. You agree not to modify, rent, lease, loan, sell, distribute, or create derivative works based on the Services, in any manner, and you shall not exploit the Services in any unauthorized way whatsoever, including but not limited to, using the Services to transmit any computer viruses, worms, trojan horses or other malware, or by trespass or burdening network capacity. You further agree not to use the Services in any manner to harass, abuse, stalk, threaten, defame or otherwise infringe or violate the rights of any other party, and that Apple is not in any way responsible for any such use by you, nor for any harassing, threatening, defamatory, offensive, infringing or illegal messages or transmissions that you may receive as a result of using any of the Services.\
\
F. In addition, Services and Third Party Materials that may be accessed, linked to or displayed through the Apple Software are not available in all languages or in all countries. Apple makes no representation that such Services and Materials are appropriate or available for use in any particular location. To the extent you choose to access such Services or Materials, you do so at your own initiative and are responsible for compliance with any applicable laws, including but not limited to applicable local laws. Apple and its licensors reserve the right to change, suspend, remove, or disable access to any Services at any time without notice. In no event will Apple be liable for the removal of or disabling of access to any such Services. Apple may also impose limits on the use of or access to certain Services, in any case and without notice or liability.\
\

\b 6. Termination. 
\b0 This License is effective until terminated. Your rights under this License will terminate automatically or otherwise cease to be effective without notice from Apple if you fail to comply with any term(s) of this License. Upon the termination of this License, you shall cease all use of the Apple Software and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the Apple Software. Sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12 and 13 of this License shall survive any such termination.\
\

\b 7. Disclaimer of Warranties
\b0 . \
A.     If you are a customer who is a consumer (someone who uses the Apple Software outside of your trade, business or profession), you may have legal rights in your country of residence which would prohibit the following limitations from applying to you, and where prohibited they will not apply to you. To find out more about rights, you should contact a local consumer advice organization.\
\
B.     YOU EXPRESSLY ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, USE OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND ANY SERVICES PERFORMED BY OR ACCESSED THROUGH THE APPLE SOFTWARE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK AND THAT THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO SATISFACTORY QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, ACCURACY AND EFFORT IS WITH YOU. \
\
C.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES ARE PROVIDED \'93AS IS\'94 AND \'93AS AVAILABLE\'94, WITH ALL FAULTS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, AND APPLE AND APPLE'S LICENSORS (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS \'93APPLE\'94 FOR THE PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 7 AND 8) HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF ACCURACY, OF QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. \
\
D.     APPLE DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES, THAT THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN, OR SERVICES PERFORMED OR PROVIDED BY, THE APPLE SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE OPERATION OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, THAT ANY SERVICES WILL CONTINUE TO BE MADE AVAILABLE, THAT THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE COMPATIBLE OR WORK WITH ANY THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS OR THIRD PARTY SERVICES OR ANY OTHER APPLE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE CORRECTED. INSTALLATION OF THIS APPLE SOFTWARE AND USE OF THE SERVICES MAY AFFECT THE USABILITY OF THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS OR THIRD PARTY SERVICES AS WELL AS OTHER APPLE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES. \
\
E.     YOU FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES ARE NOT INTENDED OR SUITABLE FOR USE IN SITUATIONS OR ENVIRONMENTS WHERE THE FAILURE OR TIME DELAYS OF, OR ERRORS OR INACCURACIES IN THE CONTENT, DATA OR INFORMATION PROVIDED BY, THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES COULD LEAD TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, LIFE SUPPORT OR WEAPONS SYSTEMS. \
\
F.     NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY APPLE OR AN APPLE AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY. SHOULD THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.  SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR LIMITATIONS ON APPLICABLE STATUTORY RIGHTS OF A CONSUMER, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION AND LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. \
\

\b 8. Limitation of Liability.
\b0  TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE BE LIABLE FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA OR INFORMATION, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION OR ANY OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES OR ANY THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE OR APPLICATIONS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES, HOWEVER CAUSED, REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY (CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) AND EVEN IF APPLE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. In no event shall Apple's total liability to you for all damages (other than as may be required by applicable law in cases involving personal injury) exceed the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00).  The foregoing limitations will apply even if the above stated remedy fails of its essential purpose.\
\

\b 9. Digital Certificates.\

\b0 A. \ul General\ulnone . The Apple Software contains functionality that allows it to accept digital certificates either issued by you, by Apple or by third parties. YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR DECIDING WHETHER OR NOT TO RELY ON A CERTIFICATE WHETHER ISSUED BY YOU, APPLE OR A THIRD PARTY. YOUR USE OF DIGITAL CERTIFICATES IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, APPLE MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, SECURITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO DIGITAL CERTIFICATES.  You agree that (a) you will not falsify or misuse any certificate; (b) you will use digital certificates for legal purposes only and only as expressly permitted by this Agreement and in accordance with any applicable Certificate Policy, Certificate Practice Statement or other Certificate Authority business practice disclosures; (c) you are solely responsible for preventing any unauthorized user from making use of your digital certificates or otherwise having access to any certificate or private key stored on your computer; and (d) you will revoke any certificate that you have reason to believe has been compromised. Apple\'92s Certificate Policy and Certificate Practice Statements may be found at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/certificateauthority"}}{\fldrslt http://www.apple.com/certificateauthority}}.\
\
B. \ul Use of Digital Certificates in Push Service\ulnone .
\b  
\b0 The Apple Software enables you to apply for an Apple-issued digital certificate in order to encrypt and transmit notifications from your Apple-branded hardware through the Push Service. This feature verifies that such notifications are coming from the Apple ID that has registered with Apple to use the certificate with the Push Service.\'a0 It does not verify the identity of the person using that Apple ID. Apple does not guarantee that there will be no hacking or intrusions into the Push Service, such digital certificates or any Apple ID. YOUR USE OF ANY DIGITAL CERTIFICATES IN CONNECTION WITH THE PUSH SERVICE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK. APPLE MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, SECURITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO THE USE OF DIGITAL CERTIFICATES AND/OR ENCRYPTION IN THE PUSH SERVICE OR THE APPLE SOFTWARE. \
\

\b 10. Export Control. 
\b0 You may not use or otherwise export or reexport the Apple Software except as authorized by United States law and the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Apple Software was obtained. In particular, but without limitation, the Apple Software may not be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S. embargoed countries or (b) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Person\'92s List or Entity List. By using the Apple Software, you represent and warrant that you are not located in any such country or on any such list. You also agree that you will not use the Apple Software for any purposes prohibited by United States law, including, without limitation, the development, design, manufacture or production of missiles, nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.\
\

\b 11. Government End Users.
\b0  The Apple Software and related documentation are "Commercial Items", as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. \'a72.101, consisting of "Commercial Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation", as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. \'a712.212 or 48 C.F.R. \'a7227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. \'a712.212 or 48 C.F.R. \'a7227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Government end users (a) only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions herein.  Unpublished-rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United States.\
\

\b 12. Controlling Law and Severability
\b0 . This License will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, excluding its conflict of law principles. This License shall not be governed by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the application of which is expressly excluded. If you are a consumer based in the United Kingdom, this License will be governed by the laws of the jurisdiction of your residence. If for any reason a court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision, or portion thereof, to be unenforceable, the remainder of this License shall continue in full force and effect.  \
\

\b 13. Complete Agreement; Governing Language.
\b0  This License constitutes the entire agreement between you and Apple relating to the use of the Apple Software and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings regarding such subject matter.  No amendment to or modification of this License will be binding unless in writing and signed by Apple. Any translation of this License is done for local requirements and in the event of a dispute between the English and any non-English versions, the English version of this License shall govern, to the extent not prohibited by local law in your jurisdiction.\
\

\b 14. Third Party Acknowledgements.   \

\b0 A. Portions of the Apple Software utilize or include third party software and other copyrighted material. Acknowledgements, licensing terms and disclaimers for such material are contained in the electronic documentation for the Apple Software, and your use of such material is governed by their respective terms. \
\
B. Certain software libraries and other third party software included with the Apple Software are free software and licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) or the GNU Library/Lesser General Public License (LGPL), as the case may be. You may obtain a complete machine-readable copy of the source code for such free software under the terms of the GPL or LGPL, as the case may be, without charge except for the cost of media, shipping, and handling, upon written request to Apple at opensource@apple.com. The GPL/LGPL software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  A copy of the GPL and LGPL is included with the Apple Software.  \
\
EA0731\
Rev. 6-7-11}