.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.\" test using groff -man afctl.8 -T ascii | more
.Dd 4/18/11               \" DATE 
.Dt certupdate 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm certupdate
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Mac OS X Server certificate administration helper tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
remove                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Fl c Ar cert_path
.Op -p Ar cert_ref
.Fl i Ar cert_identifier
.Nm
replace                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Fl c Ar old_cert_path
.Op -p Ar old_cert_ref_base64
.Fl C Ar new_cert_path
.Op -P Ar new_cert_ref_base64
.Fl i Ar old_cert_identifier
.Fl I Ar new_cert_identifier
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a tool to notify interested services to change their configurations when
certificates are removed or replaced in the keychain.  Services
interested in certificate changes register their interest 
by placing a helper tool into the
.Ar SERVER_INSTALL_PATH_PREFIX/usr/libexec/certupdate
directory.  SERVER_INSTALL_PATH_PREFIX is a directory inside the Server application.
Helper tools must return an exit status of 0 for don't care, 1 for don't remove, or 2 to indicate
an error condition. When the 
.Ar System Keychain
changes, 
.Nm 
will be called with the remove or replace command.
.Nm 
will in turn call each of the helper tools and return the highest numbered exit 
status from the helper tools.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The
.Nm
tool is intended to allow the automated replacement of expiring certificates.
.Pp
.Nm
commands
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It remove               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Indicates that the certificate at 
.Ar cert_path
will be removed.
.It replace
Indicates that the certificate at 
.Ar old_cert_path
will be replaced with the certificate at
.Ar new_cert_path
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
Command arguments
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It -c path                 \"-a flag as a list item
In both commands this is the path to a
.Ar PEM
formatted certificate.
.It -p cert_ref_base64
Optional a keychain persistant reference to the certificate in question
expressed as a base64 string.
.It -C new_path                 \"-a flag as a list item
In the path to a
.Ar PEM
formatted certificate that replaces the certificated specified by -c
.It -P new_cert_ref_base64
Optional a keychain persistant reference to the certificate in question
expressed as a base64 string.
.It -i old_cert_identifier
A string reference to a certificate in the system keychain used by mod_SecureTransport
.It -I new_cert_identifier
A string reference to a certificate in the system keychain used by mod_SecureTransport
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
Certificate Identifiers are a way to find a specific certificate in the System.keychain that
is portable across different machines (keychain persistant references are limited to a single
system). The identifier has three parts separated by colons ":".
.Pp
digest_tpe : digest : "subject"
.Bl -tag
.It digest_type
the digest algorithm used, currently "SHA-256"
.It digest
a hex string of the apropriate length for the digest algorithm. This is a digest of the DER
formatted certificate data.
.It subject
the subject of the certificate enclosed in quotes. Not really needed, but it provides readability.
.El
.Pp
SHA-256:4c141865706f403...d0c0769ed0ef05cc89e9f49cb:"example.com"
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "SERVER_INSTALL_PATH_PREFIX/usr/libexec/certupdate/helper" -compact
.It Pa SERVER_INSTALL_PATH_PREFIX/usr/libexec/certupdate
Directory containing the service specific helper tools called by
.Nm
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It 0
None of the services are interested in the certificate or the replace command was successful
.It 1
One or more helper tools requested that the certificate file not be removed
.It 2
An error occurred in one of the helper tools, should be treated as don't remove, above
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES        \" these lines are way too long for a man page
.Nm
remove -c /path/to/certificates/example.com.6077F32D1323B18EB617323DE430E30628A2A925.cert.pem -i SHA-256:4c141865706f4030353ccdc87f167a88348e3e8d0c0769ed0ef05cc89e9f49cb:"example.com"
.Pp
remove -c /path/to/certificates/example.com.6077F32D1323B18EB617323DE430E30628A2A925.cert.pem -p 
c3N1aQAAACCHGRyjD8kR1ISaAAUCtSEiAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABmRibm0AAAAjL0xpYnJhcnkvS2V5Y2hhaW5zL1N5c3RlbS5rZXljaGFpbgBpdGVtAAAAQ4AAEAAAAAAEAQAAAAAAAC4wLDEdMBsGA1UEAwwUY29sb21iaWVyZS5hcHBsZS5jb20xCzAJBgNVBAYTAlVTAAAAAQE= -i SHA-256:4c141865706f4030353ccdc87f167a88348e3e8d0c0769ed0ef05cc89e9f49cb:"example.com" -I SHA-256:036cc95e6f0b1487921444a2c8876548594c820784678aef029ec39f5c4a2aaa:"example.com"
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr certadmin 8  
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
