.\" Copyright (c) 2010-2016 Dovecot authors, see the included COPYING file
.TH DOVEADM\-DUMP 1 "2014-08-24" "Dovecot v2.2" "Dovecot"
.SH NAME
doveadm\-dump \- Dump the content of Dovecot\(aqs binary mailbox index/log
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR doveadm " [" \-Dv "] " dump " [" \-t
.IR type "] " path
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dovecot uses several binary index and log files in order to improve
performance for accessing mails. For some mailbox formats, such as sdbox
and mdbox, the index files are part of the format itself.
For details about index files, see also: http://wiki2.dovecot.org/IndexFiles
.PP
.B doveadm dump
is used to show the contents of those mailbox index/log files, in human
readable format. This is mainly useful for Dovecot developers when
debugging some problem.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
Global
.BR doveadm (1)
.IR options :
.TP
.B \-D
Enables verbosity and debug messages.
.TP
.BI \-o\  setting = value
Overrides the configuration
.I setting
from
.I /Library/Server/Mail/Config/dovecot/dovecot.conf
and from the userdb with the given
.IR value .
In order to override multiple settings, the
.B \-o
option may be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B \-v
Enables verbosity, including progress counter.
.\" --- command specific options --- "/.
.PP
Command specific
.IR options :
.TP
.BI \-t\  type
the file type of the file to be dumped.
If the
.I type
was omitted,
.BR doveadm (1)
tries to detect the type of
.IR path .
.I type
can be:
.RS
.TP 12
.B dbox
\(rA m.\c
.I n
(sdbox or mdbox mailbox file)
.TP
.B fts\-expunge\-log
Dump the list of expunged mails in
.IR dovecot\-expunges.log .
Currently used only by fts\-lucene.
.TP
.B fts\-lucene
Dump the list of indexed mails in
.I lucene\-indexes
directory
.TP
.B imapzlib
Uncompress an IMAP traffic log, which contains data compressed using the
IMAP COMPRESSION extension.
.TP
.B index
\(rA dovecot.index, dovecot.map.index
.TP
.B log
\(rA dovecot.index.log, dovecot.map.index.log
.TP
.B mailboxlog
\(rA dovecot.mailbox.log
.TP
.B thread
\(rA dovecot.index.thread
.RE
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I path
The path to the corresponding dbox storage, index or log file.
If only a directory is specified, doveadm tries to detect the type of files
under it and dumps them.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLE
Look at the contents of a mailbox\(aqs index:
.PP
.nf
.B doveadm dump ~/Maildir/.work/
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs, including
.I doveconf \-n
output, to the Dovecot Mailing List <dovecot@dovecot.org>.
Information about reporting bugs is available at:
http://dovecot.org/bugreport.html
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR doveadm (1)
