.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.\" test using groff -man af.conf.8 -T ascii | more
.Dd 3/28/06               \" DATE 
.Dt af.plist 5      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm af.plist
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd config file for afctl
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a 
.Ar plist
formatted file containing configuration info for the 
.Ar afctl
tool. 
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
This document details the configuration parameters in an XML property list used by the
.Ar afctl
tool.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The Keys in the 
.Nm
file are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It whitlist_file               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
The path to the whitelist file stored as a string (this may not be changeable in future versions)
.It blacklist_file
The path to the blacklist file stored as a string (this may not be changeable in future versions)
.It stats_file
The path to the state file stored as a string (this may not be changeable in future versions)
.It default_timeout
The default time to live for entries in the blacklist in minutes stored as a string
.It sweep_interval
The interval used by launchd to run the 
.Ar afctl
tool to age the entires in the blacklist in minutes stored as a string. Note that the time to live of the blacklist 
entries effectivly gets rounded up to the next time launchd runs the tool.
.It start_behavior
Tells the 
.Ar afctl
tool what to when it gets launched during boot. A string value of "enable", instructs
.Ar afctl
to age the blacklist and then apply it. A string value of "disable" keeps the 
.Ar afctl
tool from running. Defaults to "disable".
.It firewall_address
The location of the firewall to be managed. Defaults to local.
.It default_set
The default rule set used by
.Ar afctl
with 
.Ar ipfw
as a number stored in a string.
.It log_level
The syslog level used by the 
.Ar afctl
tool when logging.  
.It log_facility
The syslog facility used by the 
.Ar afctl
tool when logging. 
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.It Pa /etc/af.plist
The plist formatted config file
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr plist 5 , 
.Xr afctl 8 ,
.Xr ipfw 8 ,
.Xr ip6fw 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner