.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.\" test using groff -man afctl.8 -T ascii | more
.Dd 3/28/06               \" DATE 
.Dt afctl 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm afctl
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd automatic host blocking
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl v Ar debug_level              \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl a Ar ip_address Fl t Ar ttl         \" [-a path] 
.Op Fl w Ar ip_address              \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl r Ar ip_address              \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl x Ar ip_address              \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl e    
.Op Fl d  
.Op Fl f  
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a tool for temporarily blocking a given ipv4 or ipv6 address using the built-in firewall.
All blocking requests have a time to live; they are unblocked when it expires.  
.Nm 
also maintins a whitelist of addresses that it will not block. All block requests are checked
against this list before being added to the blacklist. The hosts blocked by 
.Nm
are stored in a table in a pf anchor.
.Nm
also accepts address ranges in CDIR notation, for entry into the whitelist or the blacklist.
If invoked with no flags,
.Nm
loops through the blacklist and removes addresses that have exceded their time to live. By default
.Nm
gets executed every 15 minutes to sweep out old entries.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It Fl v debug_level               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Verbosity, ascenting numbers are more verbose. level 0 is default level 1 is basic progress.
.It Fl a ip_address
Add address to the blacklist. ip_address can be ipv4 or ipv6 in CDIR notation. No DNS names allowed. 
An optional -t parameter allows the specification of the time in minutes that the address will remain blocked.
.It Fl r ip_address
Remove address from the blacklist. It will also be removed from the firewall table.
.It Fl w ip_address
Add address to the whitelist. ip_address can be ipv4 or ipv6 in CDIR notation. No DNS names allowed.
.It Fl x ip_address
Remove an address from the whitelist. ip_address can be ipv4 or ipv6 in CDIR notation. No DNS names allowed.
.It Fl c
Self configure. The
.Nm
tool will query the system configuration and determine the addresses that need to be whitelisted (routers, local interfaces, nameservers).
.It Fl d
Disables the pf anchor used to block the hosts in the table.
.It Fl e 
Enables the anchor disabled by -d (above)
.It Fl f 
Forces
.Nm
into a running state (sets the proper key in 
.Ar af.plist
and writes out
.Ar af_state
)
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLE
To set up the whitelist and choose an interval for the blacklist entry aging (as root)
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/usr/libexec/afctl -c -i 10

.Ed
To add 69.23.0.45 to the blacklist for at least 35 minutes
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/usr/libexec/afctl -a 69.23.0.45 -t 35

.Ed
To add the address 17.254.3.183 to the whitelist so it will never be blocked by
.Nm
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/usr/libexec/afctl -w 17.254.3.183

.Ed
To make sure that the blacklist is preserved across reboots be sure to edit the
.Ar startup_behavior
key in the
.Ar af.plist
config file.
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.It Pa Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/libexec/afctl
The exectuable
.It Pa /etc/af.plist
The plist formatted config file
.It Pa /var/run/af_state
A state file telling 
.Nm
what to do when it launches.
.It Pa /var/db/af/whitelist
The file used to store the whitelist
.It Pa /var/db/af/blacklist
The file used to store the list of blocked addresses
.It Pa /var/db/af/blockedHosts
The file that holds the pf table
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr af.plist 5 , 
.Xr pfctl 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
