.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.\" test using groff -man hb_summary.8 -T ascii | more
.Dd 12/8/09               \" DATE 
.Dt hb_summary 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm hb_summary
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd automatic host blocking
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl t Ar threshold         \" [-a path] 
.Op Fl m Ar email_addresses         \" [-a path] 
.Op Fl s Ar interval_start         \" [-a path] 
.Op Fl h Ar historic_start         \" [-a path] 
.Op Fl e Ar interval_end         \" [-a path] 
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm 
is a tool that summarizes the host blocking activity of
.Ar afctl.
It defaults to printing this report to standard out. If an email address (or list
of addresses) is specified with the
.Ar -m
option, 
.Nm
will send the report via email. The report lists the addresses of the hosts blocked
as well as the the count over two intervals. It also lists the last time the host 
was blocked. The intervals are sample interval (defaults to the last 24 hours), and
historic interval (defaults to the last 7 days). The history data is stored in the
.Ar asl
database used by
.Ar syslog.
The report calls out hosts that have been blocked more than
.Ar threashold
times, and provides hopefully useful information on how to proceed further.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
Options:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl t Ar threshold                 \"-a flag as a list item
Sets the threshold for the number of block events that triggers special recommendation.
.It Fl m Ar email_addreses
A comma separated list of email addresses.
.It Fl s Ar sample_interval_start
Sets the start of the sample interval: format is "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS ±HHMM"
.It Fl h Ar historic_interval_start
Sets the start of the sample interval: format is "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS ±HHMM"
requires -s
.It Fl e Ar interval_end
Sets the end of the both the above intervals: format is "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS ±HHMM" 
(default is the current time). requires -s
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES      \" May not be needed
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/CoreServices/AdaptiveFirewall.bundle" -compact
.It Pa /System/Library/CoreServices/AdaptiveFirewall.bundle
Localization info
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr syslog 1 ,
.Xr asl 3 ,
.Xr afctl 8 , 
.Xr emond 8 
.Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
The
.Nm 
command can take quite a while to create the report. The larger the interval, the longer 
it will take.
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner