.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2/15/06               \" DATE 
.Dt mail_group_expander 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm mail_group_expander,
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl vh                \" [-vh]
.Op Fl a Ar path         \" [-a path] 
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm mail_group_expander
is used to to add group aliases to the /etc/aliases file.  It scans the directory
looking for mail enabled groups, expands the users contained within the group and then
adds email addresses for each user to the group alias.  Groups are enabled through
the Server Preferences Application 
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl a Ar path            \"-a flag as a list item
Select an alternate aliases file (default is /etc/aliases) 
.It Fl v
Display version information
.It Fl h
Display help information
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/aliases" -compact
.It Pa /etc/aliases
Mail system local aliases file
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr aliases 5 , 
.Xr postfix 1 ,
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner