.\"	$Id: servermgrd.8,v 1.3 2005/02/03 02:32:14 gregv Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2012 Apple Computer, Inc., all rights reserved.
.\" Distributed only as part of Mac OS X Server
.\" 
.\" IMPORTANT NOTE: This file is licensed only for use on Apple-branded
.\" computers and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Software
.\" License Agreement accompanying the package this file is a part of.
.\" You may not port this file to another platform without Apple's written consent.
.\" 
.Dd 04 January 2005
.Dt servermgrd 8
.Os "Mac OS X Server"
.sp
.Sh NAME
.Nm servermgrd
.Nd Mac OS X Server administrative daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d | Fl x
.Op Fl i Ar interval
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl S Ar port
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl h | Fl v
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows the Server Admin application to control the machine
.Nm
is running on.
.Pp
.Nm
is typically launched at boot time under the control of
.Xr launchd 8 .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl i Ar interval" -compact
.It Fl d
Do not move to background and print log strings to the terminal.
.Pp
.It Fl h
Print usage summary and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl i Ar interval
perform doIdle every
.Ar interval
seconds. This option is primarily used when debugging.
Valid range of values is 1 through 300. Default is 60.
.Pp
.It Fl p Ar port
Use the specified
.Ar port
for cleartext communications instead of the default value of 687.
.Pp
.It Fl S Ar port
Use the specified
.Ar port
for encrypted (SSL) communications instead of the default value of 311.
.Pp
.It Fl v
Print build version and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl x
Do not move to background.
.El
.Sh KEYS
The following keys are recognized in the default configuration file,
.Pa /Library/Preferences/com.apple.servermgrd.plist :
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm listenForRegularConnections= Ns {true|false}" -compact
.Pp
.It Cm idlePeriod= Ns Ar integer
Same as
.Fl i .
.It Cm listenForRegularConnections= Ns {true|false}
Enables or disables cleartext connections.
.Pp
.It Cm listenForSSLConnections= Ns {true|false}
Enables or disables encrypted connections.
.Pp
.It Cm moduleAuthAnonymous= Ns Ar array
Unknown / unused.
.Pp
.It Cm regularPort= Ns Ar integer
Same as
.Fl p .
.Pp
.It Cm sslPort= Ns Ar integer
Same as
.Fl S .
.El
.Sh FILES & FOLDERS
.Bl -ohang -width ".Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.servermgrd.plist/buffer" -compact
.It Pa /usr/sbin/servermgrd
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
daemon
.El
.It Pa /usr/share/servermgrd
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
directory of administrative plug-ins
.El
.It Pa /Library/Preferences/com.apple.servermgrd.plist
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
current configuration file
.El
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.servermgrd.plist
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
.Xr launchd 8
configuration file.
.El
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Pp
Invalid arguments will silently be converted to their default values.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr launchctl 8 ,
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr serveradmin 8
