.\"     $Id: swupd_syncd.1,v 1.2 2004/11/08 18:55:52 bbeasley Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2012 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" IMPORTANT NOTE: This file is licensed only for use on Apple-branded
.\" computers and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Software
.\" License Agreement accompanying the package this file is a part of.
.\" You may not port this file to another platform without Apple's written consent.

.Dd 8 November 2007
.Dt swupd_syncd 8
.Os "Mac OS X Server"
.Sh NAME
.Nm swupd_syncd
.Nd Software Update Server sync daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pp
.Nm
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
is the syncronization and download daemon for Software Update Server.
This daemon is typically executed via Server Admin.app or the serveradmin 
command line tool.  When launched checks for available product updates from 
Apple and, if requested by the administrator, copies Apple updates to the
local server, providing a local source for Mac OS X software updates.
By default downloaded product updates are saved in /Library/Server/Software Update/Data/html.
Alternate download locations may be configured via Server Admin.app. 
.Pp
The sync daemon is invoked periodically under launchd control.  The launchd 
settings for the daemon are defined in com.apple.swupdate.sync.plist, 
installed in /System/Library/LaunchDaemons folder. The sync process exits
automatically after all requested product updates are downloaded.
.Pp
Program settings controlling the behavior of the daemon are stored in
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.plist.
.Pp
Information about available and copied product updates is saved in 
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/com.apple.server.swupdate.plist.  
This file is automatically updated by the daemon after each execution.
.Pp
In addition to
.Nm
, Software Update Server provides an httpd daemon process to serve downloaded
product updates to Mac OS X client machines.  The httpd daemon settings are
configured in /Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.conf.
.Pp
The sync daemon is not intended for command line operation, but can be run
in that form for special actions.  Run 'swupd_syncd -h' for more information on
available program options.
.Sh FILES & FOLDERS
.nf
/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/swupd_syncd
/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.swupdate.sync.plist
/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.swupdate.host.plist
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.plist
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.conf
/Library/Server/Software Update/Status/com.apple.server.swupdate.plist
.fi
