.\"" Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\""
.\"" IMPORTANT NOTE: This file is licensed only for use on Apple-branded
.\"" computers and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Software
.\"" License Agreement accompanying the package this file is a part of.
.\"" You may not port this file to another platform without Apple's written consent.
.\""
.Dd July 25, 2013
.Dt webappctl 8
.Os "Server app"
.Sh NAME
.Nm webappctl
.Nd web application control tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
[-s] start|stop \fIwebapp-namee\fR|- [\fIvhost-name\fR|*]
.Nm 
[-s] stop -
.Nm 
[-s] restart \fIwebapp-namee\fR|-
.Nm 
[-s] status \fIwebapp-namee\fR|-
.Nm 
[-s] tree[s] \fIwebapp-name\fR|- [\fIvhost-name\fR|*]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm 
utility allows administrators to start, stop, and check the status of web applications, or webapps, 
connected to the web service on the local host. 
In this context, a webapp is a set of Apache configuration directives and related behaviors, usually managing a set of processes listening on specific TCP ports responding to HTTP requests, routed through
the web service via reverse proxy mechanism. This mechanism may also be used for web-related services that are not
strictly web apps. It can be used for Apple-supplied webapps, such as Wiki, and it may be used for locally installed third-party
webapps. (A GUI alternative to the
.Nm
command, for locally-installed webapps with suitable keys in the webapp.plist, is Server app's Web panel.)
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Nm
recognizes the start
or stop argument to activate or de-activate the webapp specified by \fIwebapp-name\fR.
If the \fIwebapp-name\fR is specified as "-", 
the start/stop/status action applies to all webapps represented with a plist present in /etc/apache2/webapps/.
In the case of a restart "-" action, the set of running webapps are stopped, then started. (In the case of a restart for 
a specific webapp, the webapp will be stopped, then started, even if it was not running before.)
If the status argument is specified, a list of enabled webapps is displayed. The tree[s] argument displays
the hierarchy of webapps declared by the requiredWebApps property.
The optional \fIvhost-name\fR argument specifies the name of the virtual host though which the webapp is to be proxied.
If omitted the default wild-card virtual host is used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns a status code of 0 for success. In the event of failure it returns a non-zero status,
and may also dump additional diagnostic information.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Pa /Library/Server/Web/Config/apache2/webapps/ 
The directory where webapp.plists are stored.
.It Pa /Library/Server/Web/Config/apache2/webapp_scripts/ 
The directory where scripts to manage third-party webapps are placed
.It Pa /Library/Logs/WebConfig.log 
This is the log file for actions taken by the XSWebConfig class library. Inspect it to diagnose general web
service configuration problems. 
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr webapp.plist 8
