.\"     $Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2013 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" IMPORTANT NOTE: This file is licensed only for use on Apple-branded
.\" computers and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Software
.\" License Agreement accompanying the package this file is a part of.
.\" You may not port this file to another platform without Apple's written consent.
.\"
.Dd September 17, 2008
.Dt changeip 8
.Os "Mac OS X Server" 10.8
.Sh NAME
.Nm changeip
.Nd Change service configuration files with hard-coded IP addresses
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl d Ar path
.Ar old-ip
.Op Ar new-ip
.Op Ar old-hostname Ar new-hostname
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl checkhostname
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to manually update configuration records when a server's IP address
or hostname changed in a way that affected services were unable to properly
process, for example when the server is behind a NAT device and the WAN
identity changed.
.Pp
In typical usage, this command is used by an administrator to correct
affected services when a server's network information changes.
.Nm
can be invoked before the change is applied; in such an invocation, the
arguments consist of the server's current and pending IP addresses, and 
optionally the existing and new host name. 
Their usage and valid values include:
.Bl -tag -width ".It Ar new-hostname" -compact
.It Ar old-ip
If the IP address has not yet been changed, this is the existing IP address
of the server. If the IP has already been changed, this is the previous
address. (This is the value that will be replaced in the server's relevant
configuration files.)
.It Ar new-ip
If the IP address has not yet been changed, this is the IP address that will
be assigned to the server. If the IP has already been changed, this is the
existing IP address. This value will replace old-ip in the machine's
configuration.
.It Ar old-hostname
As with old-ip, the existing or previous fully qualified domain name
("FQDN" or sometimes "DNS name") for this server. If only the IP address was
affected, this argument and the next may be omitted.
.It Ar new-hostname
If
.Ar old-hostname
was provided, this argument must also be provided. The machine's fully
qualified domain name and related service configuration will be set to
this value.
.El
.Pp
Once the tool has successfully completed, the administrator must change
the machine's network settings in the Network Control Panel to match
.Ar new-ip
(if new-ip is not the current IP) and immediately reboot the server.
.Pp
The second invocation,
.Fl checkhostname ,
provides a diagnostic tool that compares the current IP address and hostname
to the information returned by DNS.
.Pp
The final invocation prints usage information.
.Pp
.Nm
must be run as root.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl d Ns Ar path-buff" -compact
.It Fl d Ar path
Iterate over the executables in
.Ar path
instead of the default
.Pa /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/libexec/changeip .
.Pp
.It Fl h
Print usage summary and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl v
Run verbosely, that is with additional diagnostic output.
.El
.Sh FILES & FOLDERS
.Bl -ohang -width ".Pa /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip" -compact
.It Pa /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
daemon
.El
.It Pa /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/libexec/changeip/
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
directory containing service-specific tools
.El
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
This would be a typical invocation for a server redeployment:
.Dl "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip 192.0.0.12 192.0.1.10 old.example.com new.example.com"
.Pp
It is also possible to leave the host name intact and only change the IP
address:
.Dl "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip 192.0.0.12 192.0.1.10"
.Pp
Its complement could be used to change only the host names, perhaps
because the DNS tables have been changed:
.Dl "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip 192.0.0.12 192.0.0.12 old.example.com new.example.com"
Note how the IP addresses are required, but that they are identical.
.Pp
Optionally you may supply only a single IP Address if only the hostname is changing.
.Dl "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip 192.0.0.12 old.example.com new.example.com"
Note a warning will be returned if, after setting the new hostname, it does not resolve to the IP Address supplied.
.D1 ""
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Pp
.Bl -diag
.It "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/changeip must be run as root."
Because
.Nm
modifies system-wide resources, it must be executed by the root user.
.It "Invalid IP Address:"
One of the IP address arguments was invalid.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr dscl 1 ,
.Xr DirectoryServiceAttributes 7 ,
.Xr DirectoryService 8 ,
.Xr scutil 8
.Sh KNOWN ISSUES
The script does not perform the actual change of IP address; this is by
design.
.Sh HISTORY
A version of
.Nm
has been present in Mac OS X Server since at least version 10.3 (Panther).
.Pp
In 10.6 (Snow Leopard),
.Nm
no longer manipulates the directory and therefore no longer takes a directory
URL as an argument.
