.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Wed Dec 14 2009               \" DATE 
.Dt CreateGroupFolder 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "Mac OS X Server"             \" OS - 'Mac OS X' if it requires Mac OS X features else 'Darwin'
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm CreateGroupFolder
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Create and populate group directories.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl f
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm Provides several options for creating and populating group directories.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl v
Sets Verbose mode - More ouput to /var/log/system.log and console
Creates group directories for groups defined in the local server with more console messages
.It Fl f
Force all missing folders to be re-created.  
Creates group directories for groups defined in a specific server even if they already exist.
All permissions and ownerships to be returned to defaults.
This option will also change the ownership and permissions
on all files within the each group's folder hierarchy.
Use this option with care.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr DirectoryService 8
