.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Dovecot authors, see the included COPYING file
.TH DOVEADM\-INSTANCE 1 "2012-02-16" "Dovecot v2.2" "Dovecot"
.SH NAME
doveadm\-instance \- Manage the list of running Dovecot instances
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR doveadm " [" \-Dv "] [" \-f
.IR formatter ]
.B instance list
.br
.BR doveadm " [" \-Dv "] " "instance remove"
.IR name " | " base_dir
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B doveadm instance
commands are used to manage the list of Dovecot instances running on the
server.
In most installations there is only one Dovecot instance, but in some cases
is may be useful to have more (e.g. running director proxy and backend in
the same server).
.PP
Instances are added to the list automatically when Dovecot is started.
Each instance is uniquely identified by its
.I base_dir
setting.
Instances can be named by setting
.I instance_name
in each instance\(aqs
.IR dovecot.conf .
When an instance is named, it can be accessed easily by giving
.BI \-i\  instance_name
command line parameter for Dovecot binaries (e.g. doveadm).
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
Global
.BR doveadm (1)
.IR options :
.TP
.B \-D
Enables verbosity and debug messages.
.TP
.BI \-f\  formatter
Specifies the
.I formatter
for formatting the output.
Supported formatters are:
.RS
.TP
.B flow
prints each line with
.IB key = value
pairs.
.TP
.B pager
prints each
.IR key :\  value
pair on its own line and separates records with form feed character
.RB ( ^L ).
.TP
.B tab
prints a table header followed by tab separated value lines.
.TP
.B table
prints a table header followed by adjusted value lines.
.RE
.TP
.B \-v
Enables verbosity, including progress counter.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I name
The value of an instance\(aqs
.I instance_name
setting.
.\"-------------------------------------
.TP
.I base_dir
The base directory of a Dovecot instance.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COMMANDS
.SS instance list
.B doveadm instance list
.PP
This command lists the seen Dovecot instances.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS instance remove
.B doveadm instance remove
.IR name " | " base_dir
.PP
This command removes the specified instance.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs, including
.I doveconf \-n
output, to the Dovecot Mailing List <dovecot@dovecot.org>.
Information about reporting bugs is available at:
http://dovecot.org/bugreport.html
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR doveadm (1)
