.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Dovecot authors, see the included COPYING file
.TH DOVEADM\-MOUNT 1 "2012-02-16" "Dovecot v2.2" "Dovecot"
.SH NAME
doveadm\-mount \- Manage the list of mountpoints where mails are stored
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR doveadm " [" \-Dv "] [" \-f
.IR formatter ]
.B mount
.IR command " [" arguments ]
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
The doveadm
.B mount
.IR command s
can be used to manage the list of mountpoints where mails are stored.
This is used mainly for better error handling when a mountpoint isn\(aqt
mounted for some reason:
.TP 4
*
If a mail directory doesn\(aqt exist, it\(aqs autocreated.
If the user\(aqs mails aren\(aqt mounted and filesystem permissions still
allow the autocreation, the user will see an empty mailbox and later will
have to redownload all mails.
If the mountpoint is known to be unmounted, Dovecot will simply fail
opening any mailboxes.
.TP
*
If dbox alternate storage isn\(aqt mounted and a mail in it is attempted to
be accessed, Dovecot normally rebuilds the indexes and notices that all the
mails in alt storage are expunged.
When the alt storage is mounted back and even if index is again rebuilt,
the mails won\(aqt necessarily become visible anymore for IMAP clients.
If the mountpoint is known to be unmounted, Dovecot won\(aqt rebuild
indexes and lose the mails.
.PP
Dovecot automatically adds mountpoints to this list at startup.
If you don\(aqt want some of the mountpoints added, you can add a wildcard
ignore for it.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
Global
.BR doveadm (1)
.IR options :
.TP
.B \-D
Enables verbosity and debug messages.
.TP
.BI \-f\  formatter
Specifies the
.I formatter
for formatting the output.
Supported formatters are:
.RS
.TP
.B flow
prints each line with
.IB key = value
pairs.
.TP
.B pager
prints each
.IR key :\  value
pair on its own line and separates records with form feed character
.RB ( ^L ).
.TP
.B tab
prints a table header followed by tab separated value lines.
.TP
.B table
prints a table header followed by adjusted value lines.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-o\  setting = value
Overrides the configuration
.I setting
from
.I /Library/Server/Mail/Config/dovecot/dovecot.conf
and from the userdb with the given
.IR value .
In order to override multiple settings, the
.B \-o
option may be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B \-v
Enables verbosity, including progress counter.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I path
The directory name of a mountpoint
.\"-------------------------------------
.TP
.I state
The
.I state
of a mountpoint.
Either
.BR online " or " ignore .
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COMMANDS
.SS mount add
.B doveadm mount add
.RI [ path " [" state ]]
.PP
If this command is run without any parameters, doveadm detects all missing
mountpoints and adds them (the same way as when Dovecot does at startup).
.PP
When a mountpoint
.I path
is given, it\(aqs added as a mountpoint.
The
.I state
can currently be either
.RB \(dq online \(dq
(default) or
.RB \(dq ignore \(dq.
The ignore state is mainly useful with path wildcards to add mountpoints
that you never want Dovecot to automatically add, such as:
.B  doveadm mount add '/mnt/*' ignore
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS mount list
.BR doveadm " [" \-Dv " ] [" \-f
.IR formatter ]
.B mount list
.PP
This command lists the mountpoints known to Dovecot and their state.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS mount remove
.BI "doveadm mount remove " path
.PP
This command removes the specified
.I path
from the mountpoint list.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs, including
.I doveconf \-n
output, to the Dovecot Mailing List <dovecot@dovecot.org>.
Information about reporting bugs is available at:
http://dovecot.org/bugreport.html
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR doveadm (1)
