.\" Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Dovecot authors, see the included COPYING file
.TH DOVEADM\-PROXY 1 "2016-04-26" "Dovecot v2.2" "Dovecot"
.SH NAME
doveadm\-fs \- Interact with the abstract mail storage filesystem
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR doveadm " [" \-Dv ]
[\fB\-f\fP \fIformatter\fP]
.BI fs \ command
.RI [ ARGUMENTS ]
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B doveadm fs
.I commands
are used to abstractly interact with the storage backend defined in the
Dovecot configuration. It allows access to the mailbox structure without
needing to know details of how the storage backend is architected.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
Global
.BR doveadm (1)
.IR options :
.TP
.B \-D
Enables verbosity and debug messages.
.TP
.BI \-f\  formatter
Specifies the
.I formatter
for formatting the output.
Supported formatters are:
.RS
.TP
.B flow
prints each line with
.IB key = value
pairs.
.TP
.B pager
prints each
.IR key :\  value
pair on its own line and separates records with form feed character
.RB ( ^L ).
.TP
.B tab
prints a table header followed by tab separated value lines.
.TP
.B table
prints a table header followed by adjusted value lines.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-o\  setting = value
Overrides the configuration
.I setting
from
.I /Library/Server/Mail/Config/dovecot/dovecot.conf
and from the userdb with the given
.IR value .
In order to override multiple settings, the
.B \-o
option may be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B \-v
Enables verbosity, including progress counter.
.\" --- command specific options --- "/.
.PP
This command uses by default the
.B table
output formatter.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COMMANDS
.SS fs copy
.B doveadm fs copy
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I source-path
.I dest-path
.PP
Copy source path to the destination path.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS fs delete
.B doveadm fs delete
[\fB\-R\fP] [\fB\-n\fP \fIcount\fP]
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I path
[\fIpath\fP ...]
.PP
Delete all data associated with the path provided.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS fs get
.B doveadm fs get
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I path
.PP
Retrieve data associated with the path provided.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS fs iter
.B doveadm fs iter
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I path
.PP
Iterate through all data files in the path provided.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS fs iter-dirs
.B doveadm fs iter-dirs
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I path
.PP
Iterate through all directories in the path provided.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS fs put
.B doveadm fs put
[\fB\-h\fP \fIhash\fP]
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I input_path
.I path
.PP
Store data at the path provided.
.\"-------------------------------------
.SS fs stat
.B doveadm fs stat
.I fs-driver
.I fs-args
.I path
.PP
Retrieve files status for the path provided. Currently, only the total size
(in bytes) of the item is returned.
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs, including
.I doveconf \-n
output, to the Dovecot Mailing List <dovecot@dovecot.org>.
Information about reporting bugs is available at:
http://dovecot.org/bugreport.html
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR doveadm (1)
