.Dd 4/19/06               \" DATE 
.Dt ServerBackup 1           \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                  \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ServerBackup
.Sh SYNOPSIS              \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl cmd path source target service opt              \" [cmd path source target service opt]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm 
is the main program that will perform actions supported by the Server Backup (
.Nm
).
.Nm 
supports the following options: 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd backup -source SOURCE_VOLUME 
                               Will start the backup process for the 
                               supplied SOURCE_VOLUME.  This should 
                               always be / for Server. 
                               e.g.; 
                               ServerBackup -cmd backup -source / 

                               Note: the SOURCE_VOLUME for backup 
                               must be at version 1080 or later. 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd browse -path PATH -service SERVICE -opt OPT 
                               Will obtain browse listing of service. 
                               SERVICE can be specified as 
                               [all] to get all service browsable items. 
                               e.g.; 
                               ServerBackup -cmd browse -path /xxx -service sharePoints 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd postBackupComplete
                               Removes the .ServerBackups folder from the 
                               boot drive. 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd destination
                               Show current destination for backup. Can 
                               be a local volume or a network volume. 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd prefs
                               Show current settings for ServerAdmin 
                               backup. 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd purgeSnapShot -path xxx 
                               Will remove a snapshot at the path xxx. 
                               Since data could be removed 
                               this should be used with care. 
                               Use with care!!! 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd restore -path PATH -target DESTINATION_VOLUME 
                               Will start the restore process with 
                               the supplied PATH for the indicated 
                               DESTINATION_VOLUME.  Note: the 
                               DESTINATION_VOLUME is always / 
                               e.g.; 
                               ServerBackup -cmd restore -path / -target / 

                               Since data could be overwritten 
                               this should be used with care.  Also, 
                               any special service handling should 
                               be considered!!! 
                               Use with care!!! 
                               Note: the DESTINATION_VOLUME for restore 
                               must be version 1080 or later. 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd services
                               Lists the names of services. 
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd size
                               Calculates the size requirements for 
                               doing a backup. 
                               The line returned represents the number 
                               of Kilobytes required for storage. 
e.g.; total := 1872
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd version
                               Returns version information for 
                               this binary. 
e.g.; Server Backup (ServerBackup), Apple Inc., Version 10.9
.Pp
ServerBackup -cmd verify -path PATH -service SERVICE -opt log | image 
                               Will verify the data using the log file for that service. 
                               e.g.; 
                               /ServerBackup -cmd verify -path /xxx -service sharePoints 
.Pp
Server Backup (ServerBackup), Apple Inc., Version 10.9
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Nm
.Bl -tag -width "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/ServerBackup" -compact
.It Pa /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/ServerBackup
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tmutil 8
