.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Thu Feb 20 2003               \" DATE 
.Dt radiusconfig 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os MacOSX
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm radiusconfig
-- tool to configure radiusd
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\".Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\".Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.\".Nd This line parsed for whatis database.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
command
.Op command-options
.Op Fl q
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a utility for configuring radiusd and its configuration files. It must be run by root.
.Sh USAGE
.Bl -tag -width stringtosetspacing12
.It Fl q
Suppress prompts.
.El
.Ss Queries
.Bl -ohang
.It Fl getconfig Op RADIUS-DB-Directory
Returns configuration data from radiusd.conf and eap.conf in plist format.
Reads the configuration files from /Library/Server/radius/raddb unless RADIUS-DB-Directory is specified.
.It Fl getconfigxml Op RADIUS-DB-Directory
Returns configuration data from radiusd.conf and eap.conf in xml plist format.
Reads the configuration files from /Library/Server/radius/raddb unless RADIUS-DB-Directory is specified.
.It Fl nascount
Returns the number of RADIUS clients.
.It Fl naslist Op --with-status
Returns the list of RADIUS clients in plist format. If the --with-status option is used,
an IMCP ping is sent to each client and the responses, or lack thereof, are included in the results.
.It Fl naslistxml Op --with-status
Returns the list of RADIUS clients in xml plist format. If the --with-status option is used,
an IMCP ping is sent to each client and the responses, or lack thereof, are included in the results.
.It Fl help
Print usage information.
.It Fl ver
Displays version information.
.El
.Ss Setup
.Bl -ohang
.It Fl --capture-base-station Ar base-station-IP Ar primary-RADIUS-IP Oo secondary=IP Oc Oo wpa-key-timeout=minutes Oc Op Ar wait-for-restart
Pairs an Airport Base Station to a RADIUS server. The shared secret is set in the RADIUS client database and on the base station.
.It Fl installcerts Ar private-key Ar certificate Op Ar trusted-ca-list Op Ar yes | no Op Ar common-name
Changes eap.conf to contain an active TLS section and configures the certificates. The yes or no option specifies whether
or not to check a certificate revocation list. The random file is replaced and the dh file is created if absent.
.It Fl addclient Ar nas-name Ar shortname Op Ar type
Adds a client.
.It Fl importclients Ar xml-plist-file
Imports a list of clients from a file.
.It Fl removeclient Ar nas-name Op Ar nas-name ...
Removes a client.
.It Fl setconfig Ar key Ar value Op Ar key Ar value ...
Sets parameters in the radiusd.conf and eap.conf files.
.It Fl setgroup Ar nas-name Ar group-name
Assigns an access control group for a specific client of the RADIUS server.
.It Fl getssid Ar host
Queries the base station at the host address for its WiFi network name (SSID).
.It Fl start
Tells launchd to keep RADIUS running.
.It Fl stop
Disables RADIUS in launchd.
.El
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/radiusconfig" -compact
.It Pa /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/radiusconfig
.It Pa /Library/Server/radius/raddb/eap.conf
.It Pa /Library/Server/radius/raddb/radiusd.conf
.\"radiusconfig description
.El
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr radiusd 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
