.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2014 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" IMPORTANT NOTE: This file is licensed only for use on Apple-branded
.\" computers and is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Software
.\" License Agreement accompanying the package this file is a part of.
.\" You may not port this file to another platform without Apple's written consent.

.Dd 31 March 2014
.Dt swupd_syncd 8
.Os "OS X Server"
.Sh NAME
.Nm swupd_syncd
.Nd Software Update service synchronization daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pp
.Nm
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
is the synchronization and download daemon for Software Update service.
This daemon is typically executed via Server.app or the serveradmin
command line tool.  When launched, the daemon checks for available product updates from
Apple and, if requested by the administrator, downloads those updates to the
local server for use by configured OS X clients.
.Pp
By default, downloaded product updates are saved in /Library/Server/Software Update/Data/html.
Alternate download locations may be configured via Server.app.
.Pp
The sync daemon is invoked periodically under launchd control and automatically
exits after all requested product updates are downloaded.
.Pp
Program settings controlling the Software Update service behavior are stored in
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.plist.
.Pp
Information about available and copied product updates is saved in
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/com.apple.server.swupdate.plist.  
This file is automatically updated by the daemon.
.Pp
In addition to
.Nm
, Software Update service provides an httpd daemon to serve downloaded
product updates to configured OS X clients.  The httpd daemon is controlled by
launchd and the settings are automatically configured by the Software Update service.
.Pp
The sync daemon is not intended for command line operation, but can be run
in that form for special actions.  Run 'swupd_syncd -h' for more information on
available program options.
.Sh FILES & FOLDERS
.nf
/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/usr/sbin/swupd_syncd
/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.swupdate.sync.plist
/Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.swupdate.host.plist
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.plist
/Library/Server/Software Update/Config/swupd.conf
/Library/Server/Software Update/Status/com.apple.server.swupdate.plist
/Library/Server/Software Update/Log/swupd_access.log
/Library/Server/Software Update/Log/swupd_error.log
/Library/Server/Software Update/Log/swupd_syncd.log
.fi
